Prepared Remarks - Dan Rosensweig, CEO & President Chegg, Inc.

Thank you, Tracey and welcome everyone to our Q3 2022 earnings call. Chegg had a strong third quarter, exceeding both our top and bottom line expectations, with Chegg Services revenue growing 8% year-over-year, reaching 4.8 million subscribers. Our results reflect excellent execution and show the inherent profitability of our model while continuing to invest in future growth.

We regularly monitor the trends in education and as has been reported U.S. undergraduate enrollment has stabilized and returned to pre-pandemic norms. What has changed is that students are increasingly going to schools offering online and hybrid classes, which are now offered by over half of the U.S. higher education institutions. In addition, 59% of U.S. students are now majoring in STEM & Business, with more than 80% taking STEM-B courses. Our data also suggests students are spreading their course load over the full year. We believe these trends are all positive for Chegg.

We continue to make investments to increase the value of Chegg’s offerings, both to our existing students, as well as expand the opportunity to reach new learners. In addition to providing academic support, we are also adding non-academic services and job skills preparation, which we believe will expand our TAM, increase retention, increase ARPU, and better serve students. We believe this is a major opportunity, which is why we recently announced the promotion of Nathan Schultz to Chief Operating Officer. Nathan is now responsible for all our direct-to-student offerings. For those of you who don’t know Nathan, he has been at Chegg for 15 years, and has held almost every senior role at the company. Most recently, he and his team built our Learning Services group, launched the Chegg Study Pack, and led the integration of Writing and Mathway. This promotion is well-deserved, a long time coming, and organizes the company around future growth. Congratulations Nathan.

This school year, we increased the price of our base product Chegg Study by $1 in the U.S. As expected, we saw a minimal impact on conversion and retention and a positive impact on the take rate for the Chegg Study Pack. Chegg Study and Chegg Study Pack are now renewing at similar rates, and we see the highest satisfaction scores from students using the Chegg Study Pack. Our strategy continues to be to increase our TAM as well as the percentage of students who subscribe to the Chegg Study Pack. This increases our ARPU and profitability and most importantly serves the students better.

As we add more value, we expect to add more students. Which is why we continue to invest in more forms of content, subjects, and personalization. As an example, our investment in Uversity, which was recently made available to students, is performing well, allowing us to better target the exact learning content students want. In addition to Uversity, our plan is to expand value by adding non-academic services and job skills preparation in the future. So today we are pleased to announce our partnership with Calm, the number one platform for mental fitness and well-being and the most preferred wellness brand for college users. Every Chegg Study Pack subscriber globally will now receive Calm Premium for free, which is a $70 annual value. The mental health challenge facing college students is huge, it’s real and it’s affecting their lives today. With over half of U.S. students reporting that mental health is impacting their studies, and nearly a third of students worldwide reporting their mental health has worsened since returning to campus. We hope this partnership provides some of the support they need.

Internationally we are prioritizing market share growth by delivering compelling value propositions for students in their countries, increasing our subscriber base through local pricing, content, and user experience. These efforts are focused on expanding our reach in major markets, including Turkey, where we recently launched a fully localized app and have seen a significant increase in downloads, activation, and engagement. We also just launched our Spanish language app in beta and we believe this will be a major opportunity for us going forward.

Students' needs continue to evolve, including the growth in demand for language learning. We are expanding the U.S. footprint of Busuu and have just launched an ad-supported freemium model. With over half of U.S. students reporting wanting to learn another language, we see a tremendous opportunity for U.S. growth.

Busuu is also now a key part of our growing partnership with Guild. Thanks to the early success of our partnership, and our strong outcomes, we are pleased to announce that we are adding Busuu’s language learning into Guild marketplace in early 2023. Our partnership with Guild continues to yield excellent results and as they grow their customer base among large employers, we are seeing increased adoption of our courses, as well as a very strong learner completion rate, which is how we are measured for quality and value. We want to thank Guild and look forward to continuing to expand our partnership.

The great work we have accomplished would not be possible without our amazing employees. Their tireless work to put students first has, once again, resulted in recognition for our teams. This quarter, we were proud to win Comparably awards for our benefits and perks, compensation, work-life balance, and perhaps most important, happiest employees, as well as being recognized as a Fortune ‘Best Workplaces’ for Women, and for Technology.

Also, Chegg employees recently participated in our first Global Day of Impact where we furthered our commitment to put students’ success and health first. Together, Chegg volunteers supported 13 global organizations supporting education, hunger, mental health, and more. Our teams have helped almost 5,000 students and I couldn’t be prouder.

And with that I’ll turn it over to Andy…

Prepared Remarks - Andy Brown, CFO Chegg, Inc.

Thanks Dan and good afternoon everyone.

Q3 was another good quarter for Chegg, with revenue and adjusted EBITDA coming in above the high end of our expected ranges, as the momentum we saw in Q2 carried into Q3. During the quarter we also made a significant capital allocation to reduce our outstanding debt at a material discount to par.

With that backdrop, let me walk you through the Q3 results.

For Q3, total revenue was $165 million. This was driven by Chegg Services revenue growth of 8% year-over-year to $159 million, as subscribers grew 9% to 4.8 million for the quarter. Gross margin continued to be strong and came in above the high end of our expectations at 73%, demonstrating continued leverage in our model. We are also seeing increased leverage in our operating expenses, all while continuing to make significant investments for future growth opportunities. This combined with the gross margin improvement, resulted in a large adjusted EBITDA beat for the quarter, increasing our expected profitability for the year.

Before moving on to the balance sheet, some of you may have noticed that our Q3 GAAP net income of $252 million, exceeded our net revenue of $165 million, let me explain. There were two discrete items that contribute to this. First, during the quarter, we opportunistically repurchased $500 million of our outstanding 2026 notes for $400 million. These notes were trading at a significant discount to par and thus, provided a risk-free return to our shareholders. This resulted in a net gain after certain costs of $94 million and was recorded in the “other income” line on the income statement. The second item was a release of the vast majority of our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $175 million, which was recorded in the “benefit from income taxes” line on the income statement. In simple terms, this release was taken because we have shown a consistent track record of GAAP profitability and we expect to remain profitable for the foreseeable future. As such, we now expect to be able to recognize the full benefits of these deferred tax assets.

Now, looking at the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and investments. As mentioned earlier, during the quarter we used $400 million to retire $500 million of our outstanding debt. We also repurchased 1.1 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $20.10. We believe these actions increase shareholder value and were possible given the strengths of our balance sheet and an operating model that generates significant cash flows.

Moving on to guidance. With a solid Q3 behind us and the fall semester now in full swing, we have a better understanding of what to expect for the remainder of the year. As a result, we are significantly narrowing the ranges and increasing the mid-points for the year. We are also monitoring global macroeconomic trends around inflation and a possible recession for the potential impact it could have on our business as we enter 2023.

For full-year 2022, we now expect:

Total revenue to be between $762 and $765 million,
With Chegg Services revenue between $730 and $733 million,
Gross margin between 73% and 74%,
And adjusted EBITDA between $252 and $255 million, or 33% adjusted EBITDA margin, an increase of approximately 280 basis points from our prior guidance. We also expect free cash flow to be at the higher end of our expected range of 50% - 60% of adjusted EBITDA.
This results in Q4 guidance of:

Total revenue to be between $200 and $203 million,
With Chegg Services revenue between $197 and $200 million,
Gross margin between 74% and 76%,
And adjusted EBITDA between $71 and $74 million or 36% margin.
In closing, the Chegg team continues to operate at a high level, and we have a balance sheet and an operating model that is second to none. This allows us to invest in the current business as well as new opportunities such as international expansion and skills to deliver increased profits and cash flows.

With that, I’ll turn the call over to the operator for your questions.
